---
layout: post
title: I attended a month-long summer school at Jönköping University, Sweden
date: 2018-06-04 00:00:00-0000
inline: false
---

Numerous times throughout my Industrial Engineering studies, I would ponder what it would be like to study abroad and get a new perspective of the knowledge I had gained throughout my studies. At the beginning of my second year of masters, I took a leap of faith and applied with one of my friends to a Swedish Summer School entitled “Purchasing Logistics with a Global Perspective” at Jönköping University, situated in the heart of Sweden. This university immediately caught my attention as they are an international university, and widely known in Sweden for their student entrepreneurship, strong research and successful collaborations with industry. Furthermore, it was summer in Sweden — the best (and only) time to visit this part of the world. After receiving news that both our applications were accepted to join the summer school, I was absolutely overjoyed! I immediately began the process of gathering the necessary documents for a Schengen study visa — a task that proved way more time consuming that I could have imagined…

Since I was applying for a student visa, I needed a lot of additional documentation including proof of finance, a summer school acceptance letter, proof of my current educational status, and much more. I made a checklist of all the documents I needed and began filling up a flip file. Luckily, about a year prior, I had bit the bullet and stood in the Home Affairs lines to get an updated passport, so that was not a worry. I booked my flights with Emirates flying from Cape Town to Stockholm with a connection flight in Dubai, as well as a bus from Stockholm to Jönköping. In terms of accommodation, I was in quite a fortunate position: Since the academic year runs from August to June in Sweden, Jönköping University was able to organise student housing accommodation for all summer school attendees in Ekhagen (a suburb just outside of Jönköping). Additionally, since Stellenbosch University is also one of Jönköping’s partnering universities, all course fees were wavered. After quadruple checking that I had all the documents on my checklist, I booked a visa appointment at the visa application centre in Cape Town. After about two and a half weeks, I received news that my application was successful — I felt like a two ton weight had been lifted off my shoulders.

As I was going to be away for just over a month, I struggled to decide what clothes and possessions I wanted to take along in my bag. I also made sure to leave enough space for any new clothes I would buy — as you might not know, H&M is Swedish. I also opted against registering for a sim as we were assured that the university and our accommodation would have free Wi-Fi. I had also received news that our student accommodation did not have any bedding, but our hosts assured us that there was no need to worry as we could cheaply buy everything we could not bring along at the local IKEA. I felt like I was already in Sweden!

My friend and I arrived three days before the summer school was due to begin, so we took that time to explore Stockholm and WOW — what a breath-taking city! Another shock we got has how Expensive (with a capital E) Sweden was. My first meal (a burger, chips and a beer) equated to R234 — and that was apparently normal! Despite our limited time, we managed to do most of the touristy things such as exploring Gamla Stan (old town), Södermalm and Norrmalm, as well as visiting the Grand Palace, the Vasa Museum, Skansen, the Nobel Museum, the Storkyrkan Cathedral, the Ericson dome and City Hall. I would definitely recommend getting the Stockholm pass as it allows you to enter most of the attractions for free as well as being able to ride on hop-on hop-off busses and boats. After the three days were over, we boarded our bus bounded for Jönköping.

{% include figure.html path="assets/img/jonkoping1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}

I got the opportunity to interact with international students from all over the world including Ecuador, America, Germany, Mexico, Turkey, Singapore, Finland, Thailand and Morocco. For me, this was the most important part of the experience — getting the opportunity to learn about so many different cultures and world views was extremely eye-opening and gave me a much greater perspective on life.
We were fortunate enough to have tours of the IKEA distribution centre and Husqvarna factory. Seeing how these Swedish companies conduct their operations was a real treat and very different from anything I encountered in South Africa.

The programme coordinators and volunteers also went to great lengths to organise numerous fun social activities for us which included a Jönköping by night pub crawl, a guided bus tour of Jönköping, a BBQ and hike up the Huskvarna mountain, and a visit to the Vadstena Castle, Brahehus Castle ruins, and Gränna Candy Factory. We were also super lucky to be in Sweden to celebrate both Swedish National Day and Midsummer, together with partaking in the 2018 FIFA World Cup festivities.

Saying goodbye to Jönköping was very difficult, mostly because I had made many good friends during the programme which I would likely not see in a very long time. In South Africa, academic research in my department at Stellenbosch is typically conducted at an arm’s length from any expertise from industry and, in the same way, industry rarely reaches out to our department. What I learnt at Jönköping University was that it is sometimes difficult to draw the line between the university’s industry partners and the university itself. A student’s masters topic at Jönköping University is typically always proposed by an industry partner with the vision that the student will come and work with them during and after their studies. Fostering this type of academia-industry collaboration, I feel, would greatly benefit South Africa.

My perception of the academic standard in South Africa also significantly changed during my Sweden programme. I originally thought our standard was much lower than other countries and that our tertiary education was not comparable to Sweden.  After my experience I realise that the education standard in South Africa is extremely high and that our university degrees are extremely difficult to obtain and require far more work to achieve. Regarding future travel, the one thing this trip did above all else was to ignite my passion for travelling and experience the world and its many cultures.

{% include figure.html path="assets/img/jonkoping2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
